README.markdown, before:

# Pandoc Configuration and Support Files

## Description

A collection of support files for use with Pandoc, and specifically for helping to turn pandoc markdown files into nice HTML, LaTeX, and PDF output. These files go in your `~/.pandoc/` folder and are designed to work with the style and configuration material provided in [latex-custom-kjh](http://kjhealy.github.com/latex-custom-kjh/), [socbibs](http://kjhealy.github.com/socbibs), and the [Emacs Starter Kit for the Social Sciences](http://kjhealy.github.com/emacs-starter-kit/). The only real dependencies are the latex class and style files in [latex-custom-kjh](http://kjhealy.github.com/latex-custom-kjh/), however.

## Notes

What's included?

- Some [Pandoc](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/) templates for an
  article in PDF (vita LaTeX) or HTML. These go in
  `~/.pandoc/templates`. These can be be pointed to directly with the
  `--template=` switch as appropriate. The `latex.template` and
  `xelatex.template` depend on the style files in
  [latex-custom-kjh](http://kjhealy.github.com/latex-custom-kjh/).
- I preview HTML documents generated by Pandoc using
  [Marked](http://marked2app.com/), a very handy HTML live previewer
  for markdown files. The `css` files in the `marked/` folder are
  meant to be used together with pandoc and
  [Marked](http://markedapp.com/). The shell script in the `marked/`
  folder, `panmarked.sh` is what I previously had Marked use as a
  custom processor to create its HTML. You point to it in Marked >
  Preferences > Behavior. In the current version of the application,
  Marked 2, this is not needed anymore. You still tell Marked to use
  pandoc as its custom processor. Go to Marked > Preferences >
  Behavior. Then specify the file Path to Pandoc like this (e.g.):
  `/usr/bin/pandoc` and the various switches and arguments to pandoc
  in the 'Args' field below it, like this (but all on one line):

    ```
    -r markdown+simple_tables+table_captions+yaml_metadata_block -w html
    -s -S --template=/Users/kjhealy/.pandoc/templates/html.template
    --filter pandoc-crossref --filter pandoc-citeproc --filter pandoc-citeproc-preamble 
    --bibliography=/Users/kjhealy/Documents/bibs/socbib-pandoc.bib
    ```

    Then check the box telling Marked to use this by default. Note
    that you may have to specify the path to any pandoc filters you
    use.
- The CSS files can be added in Marked > Style > Custom CSS. Marked
  can then use them to format the HTML output.
- In R, knitr's `knit()` function will turn `.Rmd` files into `.md`
  files. The configuration file in the `knitr/` folder is an example
  to help you produce HTML or `.tex` using knitr's `pandoc()` helper
  function.
- The CSL files in the `csl/` folder format the bibliography generated
  by pandoc and citeproc. (For simplicity we avoid dealing with
  biblatex directly at all.) The `chicago-syllabus.csl` file makes a
  tiny change to a standard Chicago Notes CSL file so you can use it
  to output citation information in the body text of a document. This
  makes it useful for lists of references in CVs and course
  syllabuses. The other two files are APSA and AJPS standard files
  from the main
  [CSL styles repository](https://github.com/citation-style-language/styles).
- The Makefile in the `makefile/` folder helps you generate HTML,
  LaTeX, and PDF output from your markdown files in a convenient
  way. It is meant to go in the folder where you are writing your
  paper. It looks for `.md` files in the working directory and
  converts them to nice HTML, PDF, and LaTeX files using the templates
  provided here, the style files in
  [latex-custom-kjh](http://kjhealy.github.com/latex-custom-kjh/), and
  the bibliography files in
  [socbibs](http://kjhealy.github.com/socbibs). You can of course
  change the bibliography and template files as desired.
- The `pandoc` commands produced by the current version of the `Makefile` include switches that invoke two [pandoc filters](http://pandoc.org/scripting.html) that do additional processing on the bibliography and cross-references in the document. You should install [pandoc-crossref](https://github.com/lierdakil/pandoc-crossref) and [pandoc-citeproc-preamble](https://github.com/spwhitton/pandoc-citeproc-preamble) to make these work.

## Contact
Kieran Healy, `@kjhealy`

Commit message:

link to md- and rmd-article-starter repos

README.markdown, after:

# Pandoc Configuration and Support Files

## Description

A collection of support files for use with Pandoc, and specifically for helping to turn pandoc markdown files into nice HTML, LaTeX, and PDF output. These files go in your `~/.pandoc/` folder and are designed to work with the style and configuration material provided in [latex-custom-kjh](http://kjhealy.github.com/latex-custom-kjh/), [socbibs](http://kjhealy.github.com/socbibs), and the [Emacs Starter Kit for the Social Sciences](http://kjhealy.github.com/emacs-starter-kit/). The only real dependencies are the latex class and style files in [latex-custom-kjh](http://kjhealy.github.com/latex-custom-kjh/), however.

## Notes

What's included?

- Some [Pandoc](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/) templates for an
  article in PDF (vita LaTeX) or HTML. These go in
  `~/.pandoc/templates`. These can be be pointed to directly with the
  `--template=` switch as appropriate. The `latex.template` and
  `xelatex.template` depend on the style files in
  [latex-custom-kjh](http://kjhealy.github.com/latex-custom-kjh/).
- I preview HTML documents generated by Pandoc using
  [Marked](http://marked2app.com/), a very handy HTML live previewer
  for markdown files. The `css` files in the `marked/` folder are
  meant to be used together with pandoc and
  [Marked](http://markedapp.com/). The shell script in the `marked/`
  folder, `panmarked.sh` is what I previously had Marked use as a
  custom processor to create its HTML. You point to it in Marked >
  Preferences > Behavior. In the current version of the application,
  Marked 2, this is not needed anymore. You still tell Marked to use
  pandoc as its custom processor. Go to Marked > Preferences >
  Behavior. Then specify the file Path to Pandoc like this (e.g.):
  `/usr/bin/pandoc` and the various switches and arguments to pandoc
  in the 'Args' field below it, like this (but all on one line):

    ```
    -r markdown+simple_tables+table_captions+yaml_metadata_block -w html
    -s -S --template=/Users/kjhealy/.pandoc/templates/html.template
    --filter pandoc-crossref --filter pandoc-citeproc --filter pandoc-citeproc-preamble 
    --bibliography=/Users/kjhealy/Documents/bibs/socbib-pandoc.bib
    ```

    Then check the box telling Marked to use this by default. Note
    that you may have to specify the path to any pandoc filters you
    use.
- The CSS files can be added in Marked > Style > Custom CSS. Marked
  can then use them to format the HTML output.
- In R, knitr's `knit()` function will turn `.Rmd` files into `.md`
  files. The configuration file in the `knitr/` folder is an example
  to help you produce HTML or `.tex` using knitr's `pandoc()` helper
  function.
- The CSL files in the `csl/` folder format the bibliography generated
  by pandoc and citeproc. (For simplicity we avoid dealing with
  biblatex directly at all.) The `chicago-syllabus.csl` file makes a
  tiny change to a standard Chicago Notes CSL file so you can use it
  to output citation information in the body text of a document. This
  makes it useful for lists of references in CVs and course
  syllabuses. The other two files are APSA and AJPS standard files
  from the main
  [CSL styles repository](https://github.com/citation-style-language/styles).
- The Makefile in the `makefile/` folder helps you generate HTML,
  LaTeX, and PDF output from your markdown files in a convenient
  way. It is meant to go in the folder where you are writing your
  paper. It looks for `.md` files in the working directory and
  converts them to nice HTML, PDF, and LaTeX files using the templates
  provided here, the style files in
  [latex-custom-kjh](http://kjhealy.github.com/latex-custom-kjh/), and
  the bibliography files in
  [socbibs](http://kjhealy.github.com/socbibs). You can of course
  change the bibliography and template files as desired.
- The `pandoc` commands produced by the current version of the `Makefile` include switches that invoke two [pandoc filters](http://pandoc.org/scripting.html) that do additional processing on the bibliography and cross-references in the document. You should install [pandoc-crossref](https://github.com/lierdakil/pandoc-crossref) and [pandoc-citeproc-preamble](https://github.com/spwhitton/pandoc-citeproc-preamble) to make these work.
- The [md-article-starter](https://github.com/kjhealy/md-starter) repository is a basic project folder you can clone that gives you a template for an article written in Markdown and a `Makefile` to produce `.html`, `.tex` or `.pdf` output from it. For R users there is an [rmd-article-starter](https://github.com/kjhealy/rmd-starter) as well, which begins with an `.Rmd` file.

## Contact
Kieran Healy, `@kjhealy`
